Docs: quickstart (#21)
grafana/grafana-javascript-agent: docs/user/quick-start-browser.md

> # Grafana Javascript Agent quickstart (browser)
> 
> This document describes basic setup and usage. Also see [demo application](https://github.com/grafana/grafana-javascript-agent/tree/main/demo).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Get started with Grafana Javascript Agent

This document describes how to set up and use Grafana Javascript Agent. For more information, refer to [demo application](https://github.com/grafana/grafana-javascript-agent/tree/main/demo).

```

> ## Set up Grafana Agent
> 
> First, a Grafana Agent instance has to be set up, see [Grafana Agent set up documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/set-up/).
> It has to be configured with `app-agent-receiver` integration to expose a http collection
> endpoint and run with `integrations-next` flag enabled.
> 
> Below is an example of a basic Grafana Agent config that will expose a collector endpoint
> at [http://host:12345/collect](http://host:12345/collect), and forward collected telemetry to Loki,
> Tempo and Prometheus instances. See [agent app receiver integration documentation](https://github.com/grafana/agent/blob/main/docs/user/configuration/integrations/integrations-next/app-agent-receiver-config.md)
> for more details on available options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Before you begin

* Set up a Grafana Agent instance. For more information , refer to [Grafana Agent set up documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/set-up/).
* Configure your instance with `app-agent-receiver` integration to expose a http collection
endpoint and run with the `integrations-next` flag enabled.

The following is an example of a basic Grafana Agent configuration that exposes a collector endpoint
at [http://host:12345/collect](http://host:12345/collect) and forwards collected telemetry to Loki,
Tempo, and Prometheus instances. For more information, refer to [agent app receiver integration documentation](https://github.com/grafana/agent/blob/main/docs/user/configuration/integrations/integrations-next/app-agent-receiver-config.md).
```

            password: xxx
      receivers:
        otlp:
          protocols:
            grpc:
            http:
              cors:
                allowed_origins:
                  - http://localhost:1234
                max_age: 7200
integrations:
  app_agent_receiver_configs:
    - autoscrape:
        enable: true
        metrics_instance: "default"
      api_key: "secret" # optional, if set, client will be required to provide it via x-api-key header
      instance: "frontend"
      logs_instance: "default"
      traces_instance: "default"
      server:
        host: 0.0.0.0
        port: 12345
        cors_allowed_origins:
          - "https://my-app.example.com"
      logs_labels: # labels to add to loki log record
        app: frontend # static value
        kind:         # value will be taken from log items. exception, log, measurement, etc
      logs_send_timeout: 5000
      sourcemaps:
        download: true # will download source file, extract source map location,
        # download source map and use it to transform stack trace locations
```

## Install Grafana Javascript Agent

```bash
#npm
npm i -S @grafana/agent-web

#yarn
yarn add @grafana/agent-web

> ```

Reviewer: What are the steps for installing? Can you describe in 1.,2.3. and so on, so the user knows what to do? Or maybe it's as simple as one step "1. Enter the following in your command line." Maybe also add a result - what happens after? What are the next steps?

Author: Will try to split this up in discreet steps.

I'd rather avoid detailed/verbose instructions for installing dependencies and aim to simply communicate that this particular dependency is required. Based on my experience, giving `npm` and/or `yarn` commands is the usual way of doing it. I think we can assume reader will be competent on basic web app development topics :)

Reviewer: Ok--but let's include at least an introductory sentence here like To install Grafana Javascript Agent, run the following:

## Initialize Grafana Javascript Agent

### Basic

Will set up agent to automatically collect uncaught errors

> & [web vitals](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web-vitals) measurements. No tracing, low footprint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and [web vitals](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web-vitals) measurements. No tracing, low footprint.
```

```javascript
import { initializeAgent } from '@grafana/agent-web';

const agent = initializeAgent({
  url: 'https://collector-host:12345/collect',
  apiKey: 'secret',
  app: {
    name: 'frontend',
    version: '1.0.0',
  },
});

> ```

Reviewer: By "initialize" - do you mean run?

Reviewer: What is basic? is there also advanced? what other options, if any?

Author: I believe "initialize" is the correct technical term here. No new processes will be started or anything of that nature. Rather, library will be configured and hook into some browser mechanisms.

Basic = simple configuration, mostly using default implicit options
Advanced = customizing "advanced" options like transports and instrumentations, which shouldn't be necessary for most users. I can try to add a section about it

Reviewer: How about something like this then: This basic configuration sets up the Grafana Javascript Agent to automatically collect uncaught errors. (undetected?). No tracing is involved, so this means a low footprint. (again not sure what you mean by low footprint...but if it's obvious then fine...)

Author: Updated worning. "uncaught" as a specific technical term. In JS errors are "caught" using the `catch {}` block. So if that didn't happen, error is considered "uncaught" :)

### With Open Telemetry tracing

Due to it's hefty size, [Open Telemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/js/)
tracing support is provided in a separate `@grafna/agent-tracing-web` package.

Using a provided default OTEL setup, which includes tracing instrumentations for user
interaction, fetch and document load:

```javascript
import { TracingInstrumentation } from '@grafana/agent-tracing-web';
import { initializeAgent, getDefaultInstrumentations } from '@grafana/agent-web';

> const agent = initializeAgent({

Reviewer: Same as above - can we write this in the form of a task - step 1, 2, 3. etc?

Author: What steps do you mean? It's kinda just the chunk of js code :thinking:

            http:
              cors:
                allowed_origins:
                  - http://localhost:1234
                max_age: 7200
integrations:
  app_agent_receiver_configs:
    - autoscrape:
        enable: true
        metrics_instance: "default"
      api_key: "secret" # optional, if set, client will be required to provide it via x-api-key header
      instance: "frontend"
      logs_instance: "default"
      traces_instance: "default"
      server:
        host: 0.0.0.0
        port: 12345
        cors_allowed_origins:
          - "https://my-app.example.com"
      logs_labels: # labels to add to loki log record
        app: frontend # static value
        kind:         # value will be taken from log items. exception, log, measurement, etc
      logs_send_timeout: 5000
      sourcemaps:
        download: true # will download source file, extract source map location,
        # download source map and use it to transform stack trace locations
```

## 1. Install Grafana Javascript Agent

Add `@grafana/agent-web` dependency to your project.

```bash
#npm
npm i -S @grafana/agent-web

#yarn
yarn add @grafana/agent-web
```

## 2. Initialize Grafana Javascript Agent

> Grafana Javascript Agent has to be initialized when your web application starts.
> Several initialization snippet examples included below.
> Pick one, add it to your app code and customize as necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grafana Javascript Agent has to be initialized when your web application starts.
Several initialization snippet examples are included below.
Choose one, add it to your application code, and customize it as required.
```

### Basic

This basic configuration sets up the Grafana Javascript Agent to automatically collect uncaught errors
and [web vitals](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web-vitals) measurements.

> Without tracing, small bundle size footprint.

Author: So in a typical web app deployment, all the code including dependencies like this one gets smushed into a single javascript file, called a "bundle". So each dependency contributes to the size of this file. The bigger the bundle is, the more bandwidth it requires to download into a browser, so it's important. 

But I don't feel strongly about this wording, just want to explain why tracing isn't included by default - it's huge!

```javascript
import { initializeAgent } from '@grafana/agent-web';

const agent = initializeAgent({
  url: 'https://collector-host:12345/collect',
  apiKey: 'secret',
  app: {
    name: 'frontend',
    version: '1.0.0',
  }
});
```

### Advanced

You can also explicitly specify and customize transports and instrumentations.

```javascript
import { LogLevel, ConsoleInstrumentation, initializeAgent, FetchTransport,
ConsoleTransport, WebVitalsInstrumentation, ErrorsInstrumentation } from '@grafana/agent-web';

const agent = initializeAgent({
  instrumentations: [
    new ErrorsInstrumentation(),
    new WebVitalsInstrumentation(),
    new ConsoleInstrumentation({
      disabledLevels: [LogLevel.TRACE, LogLevel.ERROR] // console.log will be captured
    })],
  transports: [
    new FetchTransport({
      url: 'http://localhost:12345/collect',
      apiKey: 'secret',
    }),
    new ConsoleTransport()
  ],
  app: {
    name: 'frontend',
    version: '1.0.0',
  },
});
```

### With Open Telemetry tracing using the included instrumentation

> Due to it's hefty size, [Open Telemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/js/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to it's large size, [Open Telemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/js/)
```

import { initializeAgent } from '@grafana/agent-web';
import { GrafanaAgentTraceExporter } from '@grafana/agent-trace-web';

const VERSION = '1.0.0';
const NAME = 'frontend';
const COLLECTOR_URL = 'http://localhost:12345/collect';

// initialize agent
const agent = initializeAgent({
  url: COLLECTOR_URL,
  apiKey: 'secret',
  app: {
    name: NAME,
    version: VERSION,
  },
});

// set up otel
const resource = Resource.default().merge(new Resource({
  [SemanticResourceAttributes.SERVICE_NAME]: NAME,
  [SemanticResourceAttributes.SERVICE_VERSION]: VERSION
}));

const provider = new WebTracerProvider({ resource });
provider.addSpanProcessor(new BatchSpanProcessor(new GrafanaAgentTraceExporter({ agent })));
provider.register({
  propagator: new W3CTraceContextPropagator(),
  contextManager: new ZoneContextManager(),
});
const ignoreUrls = [COLLECTOR_URL];
registerInstrumentations({
  instrumentations: [
    new DocumentLoadInstrumentation() as any,
    new FetchInstrumentation({ ignoreUrls }),
    new XMLHttpRequestInstrumentation({ ignoreUrls }),
    new UserInteractionInstrumentation()
  ]
});

// register otel with agent
agent.api.initOTEL(trace, context);
```

> ## Usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use
```

Reviewer: Usually we try to use "use' but not sure this isn't a specific use case, so do correct if wrong.
